One of the oldest civilisations in the world, India is a mosaic of multicultural experiences. With a rich heritage and myriad attractions, the country 
is among the most popular tourist destinations in the world. It covers an area of 32, 87,263 sq. km, extending from the snow-covered Himalayan heights 
to the tropical rain forests of the south. As the 7th largest country in the world, India stands apart from the rest of Asia, marked off as it is by 
mountains and the sea, which give the country a distinct geographical entity.



Food & Cuisine:- "The flavours of India"

Known for its diversity that varies with every region, state, community, culture and even religion, food in India is a vibrant assortment of 
uncountable dishes. It is distinctly characterised by the subtle and sophisticated use of spices, grains, fruits and vegetables that are all 
grown in the country.

1. North India Cuisine-

From parathas (stuffed flatbreads), puris (deep-fried bread), chaats (savoury snacks), gucchi pilaf (rice with morel mushrooms) to kebabs 
(cooked meat dishes), niharis (slow-cooked stew of mutton), daulat ki chaat (an avant garde version of milk skin), jalebi 
(deep-fried sweet pretzel) and the famous raan (a mutton-dish) , north India scores beautifully on vibrancy of cuisine.

2. South Indian Food

From idlis (steamed rice cakes) to dosa (crepe-like pancakes), sambar (spicy lentil stew) to rasam (world’s oldest consommé), food of South 
India is a culture that has developed on the principle of Ayurveda.

3. Northeast Indian Cuisine

Comprising seven states, known as the Seven Sisters, along with the inclusion of Sikkim, Northeast India is known for its interesting 
tribal cuisine and beverage culture, which hasn’t changed much since the medieval period.

4. West Indian Cuisine

The food culture of western India, essentially Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa, was initially developed by tribes (predominantly fishermen and brahmins). 







Destinations:-

1. Delhi- The captivating capital

With old monuments and busy neighbourhoods subtly merging with a vibrant and contemporary cosmopolitan world, Delhi, the capital of India, is a 
fascinating tourist destination. Poised along the banks of River Yamuna, Delhi, which is almost 1,000 years old, offers a mesmeric mosaic of 
experiences, both heritage and contemporary. While the former honour the elegant ageing of centuries-old Delhi, the latter reiterate that the 
capital is the heart of Indian democracy, and can keep pace with the most advanced of the metropolitans of the world.

-> Attractions

India Gate

A stunning archway standing as a tribute to the brave soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the country, India Gate is one of the landmarks 
of Delhi. Built with sandstone, this 42-m-high gate was the first of its kind in the national capital.

Red Fort

Lying at the heart of Delhi, the majestic Red Fort, made of fine red sandstone, stands as a testament to the architectural legacy of the Mughals.

Akshardham

olding the Guinness World Records as the world's largest comprehensive Hindu temple, the Akshardham temple complex is a stunning piece of architecture.


2. Mumbai - The City of Dreams 

Mumbai, the capital of Maharashtra, attracts dreamers with sky-high ambitions from every corner of the country. It is a unique place where the past 
is mixed with the future and history meets modernity, a city that lies at the cross section of business and entertainment and beats to a pulsating 
rhythm of its own. Located by the Arabian Sea, Mumbai is an amalgamation of heritage and culture and glitz and glamour. So from historic art deco 
buildings, which are recognised by the UNESCO, to plush new-age homes of the super rich, Mumbai has it all!

-> Attractions

Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminal

A monument of significant historical importance that houses one of the finest railway stations in the world, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus
sees a footfall of over 3 million daily. 

Bhandardara

A beautiful village nestled amongst the vast and green hilly ranges of the Western Ghats, Bhandardara is a trekker’s paradise. With its bright blue skies, 
green paddy fields, cascading waterfalls and surrounding blue-green hills, this quaint hamlet acts as a perfect retreat for families seeking to escape the 
bustle of the city for a long weekend.

Vasai Fort

The city of Mumbai lies on the coastline of Maharashtra and to protect it, many forts were constructed in its long history. One of those is the Vasai 
Fort, also known as Bassein Fort, significant militarily to oversee the surrounding areas of Mumbai


3. Pune - The Oxford of the East

-> Attractions

Aga Khan Palace

Occupying an area of about 19 acre, this palatial mansion was once used as a prison by the British for Mahatma Gandhi, Kasturba Gandhi and Mahadeo 
Desai, as well as Miraben, Pyarelal Nair, Sarojini Naidu and Dr Sushila Nayar.

Bhimashankar Temple

Dedicated to Lord Shiva, the Bhimashankar Temple is sixth among the 12 jyotirlingas (devotional shrines of Lord Shiva) in India. Rajasthani and Gujarati 
influences can be clearly seen in the Nagara (or Indo-Aryan) architectural style of the garbha griha (sanctum sanctorum) and shikahara (tower) of 
the temple.

Dehu

The birthplace of Saint Tukaram Maharaj, a Hindu poet, Dehu is around 35 km from Pune. It is located on the banks for River Indrayani. The Dehu Gatha 
Temple, built in 1723, is a must-visit.























